AKASH: the principle of ETHER. Its BLACK and its planet is SATURN.
It is exclusively good for meditation. We advise you to pray a lot during this time.
Do not have business or love appointments during this time because you will inevitably fail.
This tattwa causes us to make very serious mistakes.
If you work during this period, you should then be very careful (artists should abstain from working in Akash).
Everything that begins with Akash will fail. Akash is the tattwa of death.

VAYU: the etheric principle of AIR. Its GREENISH BLUE and MERCURY is its planet.
Everything that is velocity and motion, winds, air, aerial navigation, etc., are related to Vayu.
During this period people enjoy talking ill about their fellowmen, lying, stealing, etc.
Usually, airplane accidents happen during this period and suicides are stimulated by this tattwa.
We advise you not to marry during this period because your marriage will be of a short duration.
All kinds of simple and quick business transactions turn out very well in Vayu,
but complicated and long lasting business deals result in failure.
It is good to carry out intellectual works during this period.
The great yogis mentally manipulate this tattwa and use it inteffigently when they want to float in the air.

TEJAS: the etheric principle of FIRE. Its RED and its planet is MARS.
It is hot because it is the etheric principle of fire. During the period in which this tattwa is active we feel more heat. You can bathe in cold water in Tejas and you will never catch a cold. Never argue with anyone in Tejas because the consequences can be serious. You should utilize the time of Tejas to work intensely. Don’t marry in Tejas because you will have constant quarrels with your partner. The most terrible explosions and accidents happen in the period of the tattwa Tejas.

PRITHVI: the etheric principle of EARTH. Its YELLOW and the SUN is its planet; although its also influenced by JUPITER.
This is the tattwa of success in life. If you want to succeed in business, do it in Prithvi. If you want to have good health, eat and drink in Prithvi. Marriages that are carried out in Prithvi are happy for life. Every party, every lecture, every business, every appointment done in Prithvi will be a total success. Prithvi is love, charity, benevolence.

APAS: the etheric principle of water. Its WHITE and VENUS and the MOON are its planets.
The opposite of Tejas (fire).
This tattwa is marvelous for the purchase of merchandise.
It is also marvelous for business and you will be able to earn much money if you know how to take advantage of this tattwa.
Buy lottery in Apas. Journeys by water are good in Apas. Rainfalls that begin in Apas tend to be very lengthy and heavy.
The tattwa Apas works on concentrating and attracting.

There are two secret tattwas named Adi and Samadhi that vibrate during the aurora
and are excellent for internal meditation (ecstasy or samadhi is achieved with them).

The vibration of the tattwas begins at sunrise.
Each of the 5 main tattwas vibrates for twenty-four minutes in a total cycle of two hours.
Order: Akash, Vayu, Tejas, Prithvi, Apas.

Practice
Sit at a table facing the East, rest your elbows on the table and proceed in the following manner:
place the thumbs of your right and left hands into your ears, cover your eyes with the index fingers,
cover your nostrils with your middle fingers, and seal your lips with your ring fingers or little fingers.
Inhale Slowly counting to twenty. Hold your breath and count from one to twenty.
Exhale slowly counting one to twenty. It is necessary to remove your middle fingers to inhale and exhale
but during the retention of your breath the middle fingers should hermetically seal your nostrils.
It is necessary for you to try to see the tattwas with the third eye during the retention of your breath.
The third eye resides between the two eyebrows. At the beginning you will see nothing but after some time
you will be able to see and recognize them by their colors.
